Specific instructions.
Okay, cool. Okay.
New Zealand for 20 minutes. It'll be in public session.
Hello. Very good Here.
I'm Sam Upend, our chair of the committee.
It's the other members here as well.
We have you in for 20 minutes, I believe.
Uh, so I'll let you introduce yourselves quickly, um,
make short opening remarks,
and then we'll open it up to members.
Thanks. Excuse.
Hi, I'm Rachel Haggerty.
I'm the direct of funding
for hospitals from Health New Zealand.
Good. I'm Mad Gray,
national Chief News to Health New Zealand.
So this is our response to further inquiry
around the auditor generals report into equity of access
to planned care and, um, a particular interest
as we are increasing our planned care year on year.
And, um, we're working more closely
with our private colleagues of doing that.
Rachel, sorry to interrupt.
Can you sort of speak into your microphone? Not app.
I'm not usually asked to speak call.
Thank you. So
I was about to say this. I
was trying to, I was trying to be well managed.
Um, so just for yourself.
So, um, yeah, this, the report is about our equitable access
to plan care off the back of the Auditor general's report.
And you had some specific queries on following up about our
plans and our intentions and the space.
I think the important thing is the oversight
of this work is led not just by our clinicians,
but also by our leaders and, and, and Pacific Health
and Disability Services, um,
and is focused on addressing equity across the country.
So more than happy to take questions.
Right. I'll open it up to members. Dr. Vera.
Thank you. Uh, I'd just like to ask a set
of questions across all of these that are
essentially asking you to point us to the sources of,
of information, please.
Mm-hmm. So, um, have any of the, uh, plans
for the harmonization program in any
of those specialties being published?
Not yet. So they have, we've done the first sort
of data set or the,
and then we've, so we did a massive data analytic,
which created a number of, um, a number of reports
and presentations on the findings.
They have now gone to all of those reports, have gone
to the five expert advisory groups who've then reviewed
them, refined them, asked
for clarification across that information.
And they're now starting
to draw together their recommendations from those findings.
And we have yet to go to the piece of work, um, about
what the implications are
of implementing the recommendations that they're making.
Um, but those sorts
of recommendations are the things you would expect to find,
such as we would need to change levels
of access in districts or change clinical guidelines.
The data sources for all of
that comes from our national data sets, um,
draws on our quality data sets, um,
and draws on our information around who's accessing
what based on domicile
And ethnicity for the, for the purpose of the committee,
being able to keep, keep track of how this goes.
Will those plans that are due to be completed in December,
will they be published?
To be honest, we haven't had
that conversation about whether they're published.
They're certainly information that we would seek
to share with people.
Um, so we can take that question back.
With regards to, um, their publication,
they've been brought together for the purpose of
changing our practice and informing our choices,
particularly for our 26 27 financial year.
The clinicians involved are representatives from across the
whole organization, but we can take that question back.
Um, publication hasn't been our purpose.
Our purpose has been driving decision making.
And similarly, the, um, data sets that you've mentioned,
are they publicly available
Through the National Data Collection? Yes.
Which is the one that you have to apply to,
to draw down your own data or
You can apply to draw it down
or you can ask us for data sets, um,
through the OIA process re related to this.
Um, it does have, um, limitations of course
'cause of NHI completion, et cetera.
So there are certain points at which we stop making
Available.
Um, issues around, so the list here,
clinical priority access score, wait list size, um,
follow up ratios, acceptance rates, those things would have
to, would only be able to obtain through the OAA, which, um,
Some of them are published Probably couldn't really be
described as publicly available.
Some of them are published routinely, like the, um, the
delivery, um, wait list size is routinely available.
Um, and the ones that aren't routinely available,
'cause they require different levels of work to be done,
are standardized intervention rates.
So they're probably the most complicated piece of this work,
which we've had to refine.
Um, and the wait list size, our achievement
of health targets and all of the information related to
that is publicly available on our website,
including our new publication,
which is the diagnostic access times.
Uh, the equity data is that routinely reported. Um, some
Of that is routinely reported related to health targets.
So the ethnicity related, um, information related
to health targets, wait lists, churn rates, um, some
of them, again, some of the more specific information is not
published at the moment on our websites as we're working
through what it means and
how we bring this together on a regular basis.
This is a, um, just looking at re four, it's a really high
priority piece of work
and, you know, planned care
probably always is in the health system.
It's a large amount of, of, um, health systems
work, uh, this, um,
these actions and what's being, being done is that, is
that the sort of work we might see routinely,
routinely published?
Yes. So things like the scoring systems,
the clinical priority systems, the standardized intervention
rates, we are creating those measures
and the equity access, creating those measures
for the purpose that they can be routinely used
throughout the system.
And some of this work is resolving longstanding differences
of views about what the information means,
how it's reported, how it's analyzed.
Thank you. All right. Any other questions from members?
Bring them in and not Alright. We're
Going to go with high quality work.
Well done. Yeah, excellent response. No, thank you.
I, I think we got quite a bit out of response. Yeah.
Thank you for making yourself to come and speak to us today.
Thank you very much. Yes, thank you.
Okay. We can move that into, go.